
Telomeres are repetitive sequences bound by proteins at the ends of chromosomes. They shorten with each round of replication due to the “end replication problem,” the phenomenon in which Okazaki fragments cannot be placed at the very end of a replicating chromosome. This telomere shortening continues until the reach a critically short length. The shortening of the telomere to this critical point results in it appearing to the cell as a one-sided double strand break. The DNA damage response is then activated, usually resulting in cellular senescence. A subset of cells, however, will circumvent cell death by lengthening their telomeres. This often happens via the reactivation of telomerase. However, telomeres can also be lengthened via a mechanism known as alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) in which a critically short telomere uses the end of another chromosome as a template for synthesis. Cells that are able to bypass cell death are then referred to as “survivors”. Previous work on ALT has been largely qualitative, with a gene being determined to have a role in ALT if its deletion completely eliminated ALT or altered the distribution of survivor types (which are determined by chromosome end structure and are in equal distributions in tlc1Δ). Until recently researchers have not had a method with which to determine the frequency of ALT, preventing detection of ALT supressors (which would increase ALT events), genes that have a role in but are not essential for ALT, or genes that have a role in ALT but do not impact survivor type. In this paper, a method for determining ALT frequency was developed. Yeast that are deficient for telomerase due to a deletion of the RNA component TLC1 are passaged in liquid until they reach senescence. These senescent cells are then plated, and the formation of colonies (survivors) is monitored for 5 days. As TLC1 deletion eliminates telomerase function, any colonies that are able to bypass senescence are presumed to have done so via ALT, and the number of survivors that form can be compared to the number of cells plated to determine ALT frequency.  Once overall frequency was determined by deleting a component of telomerase known as TLC1, genes suspected of being involved in ALT were deleted and changes in ALT frequency determined. This method is valuable as researchers are now able to quantify the effect of a genes that suppress or are involved in, but not essential for, ALT. 

 
The figure I want to recreate from Kockler et al 2022 is figure 1c, which shows the frequency of ALT in the context of various gene deletions. This figure shows the overall frequency of ALT to be 2x10-5. These frequencies were determined by deleting TLC1, the RNA component of telomerase. As the telomerase complex is nonfunctional without TLC1, passaging yeast to senescence in the absence of TLC1 therefore allows for the determination of ALT frequency. By deleting TLC1 alone, the overall frequency of ALT was determined to be 2x10^-5. Other genes believed to be involved in ALT were also deleted, and changes in frequency determined in these genetic backgrounds. ALT is believed to occur via a break-induced replication-like method, in which a chromosome end searches the genome for homology and then invades into/ anneals with that homologous region, genes involved in homology search, invasion and annealing were tested. It is also believed that cell cycle arrest is required for cells to form aLT survivors. Unsurprisingly, loss of RAD52, the major annealing protein, completely eliminated ALT, while loss of another RAD59, another annealing protein, and the invasion gene RAD51 and its accessory protein RAD55, and the checkpoint genes RAD9 and RAD24 all resulted in decreases in ALT frequency. 
Cell cycle arrest is needed for ALT precursors to have sufficient time to become survivors, and so it is unsurprising  that loss of checkpoint proteins RAD9 and RAD24 all decrease ALT frequency. 
In order for chromosome ends of healthy cells to avoid being detected as double strand breaks the telomeres are bound by protein complexes. When binding of these proteins is eliminated, either by gene deletion or telomere shortening, the chromosome ends appear to the cells as DSBs, triggering the DNA damage response and cell cycle arrest. As uncapping the telomeres makes them more prone to being detected as a break in need of repair, it is possible that loss of telomere capping could increase the frequency with which ALT occurs. This is supported by the deletion of the telomere capping protein RIF1 and the loss of RIF1 and RIF2 together, but not the loss of capping protein RIF2 alone. 

